---
title: Installation
description: 'Learn how to install Nuxt UI Pro in your application.'
---

## Setup

1. Add `@nuxt/ui-pro` dependency to your project:

::code-group

```bash [pnpm]
pnpm i @nuxt/ui-pro
```

```bash [yarn]
yarn add @nuxt/ui-pro
```

```bash [npm]
npm install @nuxt/ui-pro
```

::

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
No need to install `@nuxt/ui` yourself as it's already a dependency of `@nuxt/ui-pro`.
::

2. Extend `@nuxt/ui-pro` layer and register `@nuxt/ui` module in your `nuxt.config`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  extends: ['@nuxt/ui-pro'],
  modules: ['@nuxt/ui']
})
```

Start your development server, you should now be able to use all the components, composables and utils from Nuxt UI Pro 🚀

## License

Nuxt UI Pro is free in development, but you need a license to use it in production. You can choose between **Solo** and **Team**, both will give you access to the same features and give you a license key required to build your apps. The main difference is the number of developers that can be invited to the private GitHub repository.

::callout{to="/pro/pricing" icon="i-heroicons-ticket"}
**Purchase a license for Nuxt UI Pro.**
::

Once purchased, you will receive an email with a license key to activate. Visit https://ui.nuxt.com/pro/activate to activate your license with your GitHub username and license key, you will be invited to the private GitHub repository.

Then, use your license key in your `.env` file:

```sh [.env]
NUXT_UI_PRO_LICENSE=<your-license-key>
```
If you have multiple projects on your machine, you can also add it to your `~/.nuxtrc`:
```sh [.nuxtrc]
uiPro.license=<your-token>
```

## TypeScript

This Nuxt layer is written in TypeScript and provides typings for all its components and composables.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb" to="/getting-started/installation#typescript"}
You can first read the TypeScript section of Nuxt UI.
::

Like Nuxt UI, you can import the Nuxt UI Pro types from `#ui-pro/types`, it can be useful when defining wrapper components:

```vue
<template>
  <UHeader :links="links" />
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
import type { HeaderLink } from '#ui-pro/types'

defineProps<{
  links: HeaderLink[]
}>()
</script>
```

## Options

You can customize Nuxt UI Pro by providing options in your `nuxt.config`:

### `uiPro.license`

You can set your license key directly in your `nuxt.config` if you don't want to use environment variables or `~/.nuxtrc`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  extends: ['@nuxt/ui-pro'],
  uiPro: {
    license: 'your-license'
  }
})
```

### `uiPro.content`

Nuxt UI Pro will load some components, composables and utils related to `@nuxt/content` only when the module is detected in your project. If you somehow want to import those anyway, you can set the `content` option to `true`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  extends: ['@nuxt/ui-pro'],
  uiPro: {
    content: true
  }
})
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb" to="/pro/getting-started/content"}
Read more about Nuxt Content integration in Nuxt UI Pro.
::

### `uiPro.routerOptions`

Nuxt UI Pro overrides the default Nuxt scroll behavior by injecting a custom `app/router.options.ts`. If you want to add your own, you will need to set the `routerOptions` option to `false`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  extends: ['@nuxt/ui-pro'],
  uiPro: {
    routerOptions: false
  }
})
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
A warning will appear in your console when multiple `router.options.ts` files are detected. You can remove the warning by setting `routerOptions` to `true`.
::

### `uiPro.customScrollbars` :u-badge{label="New" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Nuxt UI Pro overrides the default scrollbars style on Windows by injecting a `scrollbars.css` CSS file. If you want to disable this behavior, you will need to set the `customScrollbars` option to `false`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  extends: ['@nuxt/ui-pro'],
  uiPro: {
    customScrollbars: false
  }
})
```

## Edge

To use the latest updates pushed on the [`dev`](https://github.com/nuxt/ui-pro/tree/dev) branch, you can use `@nuxt/ui-pro-edge`.

Update your `package.json` to the following:

```diff [package.json]
{
  "devDependencies": {
-   "@nuxt/ui-pro": "^0.3.1"
+   "@nuxt/ui-pro": "npm:@nuxt/ui-pro-edge@latest"
  }
}
```

Then run `pnpm install`, `yarn install` or `npm install`.
